# Intuitive Explanation of Bayes Theorem
- **Test are not event**. We have a cancer test, separate from the event of actually having cancer. We have test for spam, separate from the event of actually having a spam message.
- **Test are flawed**. Test detect things that don't exist (false positive), and miss things that do exist (false negative). People often use test result without adjusting for test error.
- **False positive skew results**. Suppose you are searching for something really rare (1 in a million). Even with a good test, it's likely that a positive result is really a false positive on somebody in the 999,999.
- **People prefer natural numbers**. Saying "100 in 10,000" rather than "1%" helps people work through the numbers with fewer errors, especially with multiple percentage.
- **Even science is a test**. At philosophical level, scientific experiments are "potentially flawed test" and need to be treated accordingly. There is a *test* for chemical, or a phenomenon, and there is the *event* of the phenomenon itself.

## Bayes's theorem converts the results from your test into the real probability of the events. For example, you can:
* **Correct your measurement**. If you know the real probabilities and the chance of a false positive and false negative, you can correct for measurement errors.
* **Relate the actual probability to the measurement test probability**. Given mammogram test result and known the errors rates, you predict the actual chance f having cancer given a positive test.
> In the technical terms, you can find P(H|E), the chance that hypothesis H is true given evidence E, starting from P(E|H), the chance that evidence appears when the hypothesis is true.
